Update README and documentation (#47)
google/model-transparency: README.md

<!-- toc -->

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Projects](#projects)
  - [Model Signing](#model-signing)
  - [SLSA for ML](#slsa-for-ml)
- [Status](#status)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Overview

There is a significant growth in the number of ML-powered applications. However,
this also provides grounds for attackers to exploit unsuspecting ML users. This

> is why Google launched [Secure AI Framework (SAIF)][saif] to help chart a path

Author: That is such a good suggestion! Thank you, updated

> towards creating trustworhty AI applications. The first principle of SAIF is

Author: Thank you!

> Expand strong security foundations to the AI ecosystem

> Building on the work with [Open Source security Foundation][openssf] we are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building on the work with [Open Source Security Foundation][openssf], we are
```

also add a link to the openssf site?

> creating this repository to prove how the ML supply chain can be strengthen in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
creating this repository to demonstrate how the ML supply chain can be strengthened in
```

_the same way_ as the traditional software supply chain.

This repository hosts a collection of utilities and examples related to the
security of machine learning pipelines. The focus is on providing *verifiable*
claims about the integrity and provenance of the resulting models, meaning users
can check for themselves that these claims are true rather than having to just
trust the model trainer.

## Projects

> Currently, there are 2 main projects in the repository: model signing (to

Reviewer 2: Nit: change '2' to 'two' (best to spell out numbers under 10).

Author: Sounds good, changed!

[SLSA](https://slsa.dev/) (to prevent tampering of models during the build
process).

### Model Signing

This project demonstrates how to protect the integrity of a model by signing it
with [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev/), a tool for making code signatures
transparent without requiring key maintenance.

When users download a given version of a signed model they can check that the
signature comes from a known or trusted identity and thus that the model hasn't
been tampered with after training.

We are able to sign large models with very good performance, as the following
table shows:

| Model              | Size  |  Sign Time | Verify Time |
|--------------------|-------|:----------:|:-----------:|
| roberta-base-11    | 8K    | 1s         | 0.6s        |
| hustvl/YOLOP       | 215M  | 1s         | 1s          |
| bertseq2seq        | 2.8G  | 1.9s       | 1.4s        |
| bert-base-uncased  | 3.3G  | 1.6s       | 1.1s        |
| tiiuae/falcon-7b   | 14GB  | 2.1s       | 1.8s        |

See [model_signing/README.md](model_signing/README.md) for more information.

### SLSA for ML

To protect the supply chain of traditional software against tampering (like in

> the [Solarwinds attack][solarwinds]), we can generate SLSA provenance, for

Reviewer 3: Is there another good example here? Personally I avoid pointing to solarwinds when discussing build provenance because solarwinds was about source compromise, which this would not prevent.

Author: Oh, I thought they said in the postmortem that SLSA would have helped them (paraphrasing). I'll look for something else by tomorrow if nothing else is suggested by then

Reviewer 3: The source track of SLSA would have helped, but I believe not build since correctly signed, albeit backdoored, artifacts were produced.
I do see https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/threats-overview says solarwinds would have helped though, I'll check up on this offline, see if someone knows more.

example by using the [SLSA L3 GitHub generator][slsa-generator].

> This projects shows how we can use the same generator for training models via

Author: Thank you, applying it right now!

GitHub Actions. While most of the ML models are too expensive to train in such a
fashion, this is a proof of concept to prove that _the same traditional software
supply chain protections can be applied to ML_. Future work will involve

> covering training ML models that require access to accelerators (i.e., GPUs,

Reviewer 2: Nit: I think "covering training" should just be "training"?  Or "covering the training of ML models"?

Author: Updated, thank you!
